libs/web-modules/src/feature-tutorial-detail/profile-ui-tutorial/content/main-content.mdx, before:

import { Link } from '@nextui-org/react'

<CodeWithAccoridions>
## !!accordions Section 1: Setup and initialize a new React project with NextUI

Before we dive into coding the profile page, let's set up our project:

1.  **Prerequisites:** Ensure you have Node.js and yarn (or npm) installed on your machine.
2.  **NextUI CLI:** Open your terminal and run the following command to install the NextUI CLI globally, execute the following command in your terminal:

```bash
yarn add nextui-cli -g
```

3.  **Init a new NextUI project :** Initialize a new NextUI project using the init command. This sets up your project with the necessary configurations:

```bash
nextui init my-nextui-app
```

You will be prompted to configure your project:

```bash
? Which components would you like to add? › - Space to select. Return to submit

Instructions:
    ↑/↓: Highlight option
    ←/→/[space]: Toggle selection
    [a,b,c]/delete: Filter choices
    enter/return: Complete answer

Filtered results for: Enter something to filter
    ◯  accordion
    ◯  autocomplete
    ◯  avatar
    ◯  badge
    ◯  breadcrumbs◉  button
    ◯  card
    ◯  checkbox
    ◯  chip
    ◯  code
```

You can just use the default configuration and add all the components for now.

4.  **Start Development Server:** Install the dependencies to start the local server:

```bash
cd my-nextui-app && yarn install
```

```bash
yarn dev
```

You should now have a NextUI startup screen at `http://localhost:3000/` in your browser, ready for us to transform into a stunning profile page!

## !!accordions Section 2: Building the FeaturePhotos component

In this section, we'll craft a captivating header showcasing a rotating carousel of feature photos using NextUI for styling, Embla Carousel React for the core carousel functionality, and Tailwind CSS for additional customization.

1. Files and Structure:

   - `feature-photos.tsx`: The main component file for the FeaturePhotos component.
   - `carousel-dot-buttons.tsx`: A component for rendering navigation dots in the carousel.
   - `constants.ts`: A file containing constants for styling.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.

2. Dependencies:

   - `embla-carousel-react`: A lightweight carousel library for React. Install it using `yarn add embla-carousel-react`.
   - `@nextui-org/react`: NextUI components for building the UI

3. Deep dive into `feature-photo.tsx` file:

   - **Props:**

     - `photos`: An array of photo URLs to display in the carousel.
     - `showDots`: A boolean to toggle the visibility of navigation dots.

   - **Carousel Setup:**

     - `useEmblaCarousel` to control the carousel. It's a handy hook provided from `embla-carousel-react` giving us a `ref` to attach to our wrapping element, which is needed to cover the scroll overflow
     - `useDotButton` to manage the state of the navigation dots. It provides the selected index, an array of scroll snap points, and a function to handle dot button clicks.
     - `<CarouselDotButton/>` is a custom component that renders a dot button for each photo. It receives an `onClick` function to handle the click event and a `className` to style the button based on its active state.
     - We will break down the `CarouselDotButton` component and `useDotButton` hook later.

   - **Handling Navigation Dot Button Clicks:**

     - `handleDotButtonClick` is a function that takes an index and returns another function. This returned function, when called, triggers the `onDotButtonClick` function with the provided index.

     ```tsx
     const handleDotButtonClick = (index: number) => {
       // !border(1:3)
       return () => {
         onDotButtonClick(index)
       }
     }
    
      <CarouselDotButton
       ...
       // !border(1:1)
       onClick={handleDotButtonClick(index)}
       ...
     />
     ```

     - This pattern is known as a <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Closures" target="_blank">closure</a>, allowing each dot button to have its own specific behavior when clicked.

   - **Rendering:**

     - The component returns a `<section>` element with two main parts:
       - A block containing the carousel. Photos are mapped elements containing an `<Image>` component from '@nextui-org/react' for each photo. Each image's height is set to `FEATURE_HEADER_HEIGHT` pixels, and the width is set to fill the screen.
       - A conditional block that renders navigation dots using `<CarouselDotButton/>` if `showDots` to visually indicate the currently selected dot.

   - **Styling:**
     - The carousel and its elements are styled using Tailwind CSS classes for layout and appearance. The `className` properties dynamically apply styles based on the component's state and props, such as adjusting the opacity of the active dot.
     - We use the `cn` utility class from NextUI to conditionally apply classes based on the active state of the dot. This util function is also used to join `classNames` together avoiding the TailwindCSS classes conflicts.
     ```tsx
     <CarouselDotButton
        ...
        className={cn(
           'inline-flex cursor-pointer border-0 p-0 m-0 size-2 ...',
           {
              // !callout[/bg-gray-300 opacity-100/] These classnames will only be applied for the active dot element
              'bg-gray-300 opacity-100': index === selectedIndex,
           }
        )}
     />
     ```

4. Deep dive into `carousel-dot-buttons.tsx` file: <br/>

   - **`useDotButton` hook:**

     - The main purpose of this hook is to manage the state of the navigation dots in the carousel. It takes `emblaApi` as an argument, which is the carousel API needed for interacting with the carousel.
     - It has an effect that listens to the `reInit` and `select` from embla carousel API to update the selected index.
     ```tsx
      React.useEffect(() => {
         if (!emblaApi) return;

         onInit(emblaApi);
         onSelect(emblaApi);
         // !border(1:1)
         emblaApi.on('reInit', onInit).on('reInit', onSelect).on('select', onSelect);
      }, [emblaApi, onInit, onSelect]);
     ```
     - The `onDotButtonClick` function execute the `scrollTo` method from the embla carousel API to scroll to the selected photo.
     - The `scrollSnaps` array contains the scroll snap points for each photo in the carousel.
     - The `selectedIndex` variable holds the index of the currently selected photo.
     - The `useDotButton` hook returns an object with the selected index, scroll snaps, and a function to handle dot button clicks. So we can use this object in the `FeaturePhotos` component.

   - **`CarouselDotButton` component:**
     - This component is just a wrapper of the native html button element. It takes all the props that a button element can take, so we can style the button based on its active state and handle the click event from the `FeaturePhotos` component.

**Live Demo:** <br/>
We've created a Storybook story for the `FeaturePhotos` component to showcase its functionality and appearance. You can check it out here: <a href="https://66a1ae67d3806ba8755e9ebe-rktxlyjzkm.chromatic.com/?path=/docs/tutorials-profile-ui-components-feature-photos--docs" target="_blank">FeaturePhotos Story</a>

Now that we've built the `FeaturePhotos` component, we can move on to the next section of our profile page.

## !!accordions Section 3: Designing the Profile Information Section

In this section, we'll create the ProfileInfo component which is responsible for displaying the main information section of a user's profile page.<br/>

1. Files and Structure:

   - `profile-info.tsx`: The main component file for the ProfileInfo component.
   - `info-line.tsx`: A reusable component for displaying an icon and text in a row.
   - `typography.tsx`: Custom typography components for consistent text styling.
   - `utils.ts`: Utility functions for generating avatar fallback text and formatting the user's location.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.

2. Dependencies:
   - `@nextui-org/react`: NextUI components for building the UI
   - `lucide-react`: A library of simply beautiful open-source icons. Install it using `yarn add lucide-react`.

3. Deep dive into `profile-info.tsx` file:
   - **Props:**

     - `profile`: An object containing the user's information like name, username, title, bio, location, website, and avatar URL.
     - `company`: An object containing the company's information like name and website.

   - **Rendering:**

     - The component returns a `<section>` element with the user's avatar, name, username, title, bio, location, website, and an edit profile button.
     - The user's avatar is displayed using the `Avatar` component from '@nextui-org/react'. If the avatar URL is not provided, a fallback text generated from the user's name is displayed.
     - The user's company name is displayed as a clickable link to their website using the `Link` component from '@nextui-org/react'.
     - The user's location and website are displayed using the `InfoLine` component, which shows an icon and text in a row.

4. Deep dive into `info-line.tsx` and `typography.tsx` files:
      - This component takes an icon, classname, and children as props to display an icon and content in a row.
      - We're using the `Icon` component from '@nextui-org/react' to render the icon and `Spacer` component for spacing between the icon and content.
      - The `Paragraph` and `Subtle` components are custom typography components for consistent text styling across the profile page.

**Live Demo:** <br/>
We've created a Storybook story for the `ProfileInfo` component to showcase its functionality and appearance. You can check it out here: <a href="https://66a1ae67d3806ba8755e9ebe-rktxlyjzkm.chromatic.com/?path=/docs/tutorials-profile-ui-components-profile-info--docs" target="_blank">ProfileInfo Story</a>

So far, we've created the `FeaturePhotos` and `ProfileInfo` components. Next, we'll implement the Profile Stats section.

## !!accordions Section 4: Creating the Profile Stats Section

In this section, we'll build the ProfileStats component, which displays the user's profile statistics like followers, following, and posts count.<br/>
Since it's a pretty straightforward component, let's dive into the implementation by opening the `profile-stats.tsx` tab:

1. Files and Structure:

   - `profile-stats.tsx`: The main component file for the ProfileStats component.
   - `stats-block.tsx`: A reusable component for displaying a label and value in a column.
   - `utils.ts`: Utility functions for formatting numbers.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.

2. Deep dive into `profile-stats.tsx` file:
   - **Props:**
     - `stats`: An object containing the user's statistics like followers, following, and posts count.

   - **Rendering:**
     - The component returns a `<section>` element with three `StatsBlock` components for displaying followers, following, and posts count.
     - The `StatsBlock` component takes a label and value as props and displays them in a column.
     - The numbers are formatted using the `formatNumber` utility function to include commas and a maximum of 3 decimal places.

**Live Demo:** <br/>
We've created a Storybook story for the `ProfileStats` component to showcase its functionality and appearance. You can check it out here: <a href="https://66a1ae67d3806ba8755e9ebe-rktxlyjzkm.chromatic.com/?path=/docs/tutorials-profile-ui-components-profile-stats--docs" target="_blank">ProfileStats Story</a>

## !!accordions Section 5: Implementing the Profile Timeline Tabs

In this section, we'll create the ProfileTimeline tab component, which allows users to switch between different timeline views like posts, photos, and liked posts.

1. Files and Structure:


</CodeWithAccoridions>

Commit message:

Update code line marking and styling in CodeBlock component

libs/web-modules/src/feature-tutorial-detail/profile-ui-tutorial/content/main-content.mdx, after:

import { Link } from '@nextui-org/react'

<CodeWithAccoridions>
## !!accordions Section 1: Setup and initialize a new React project with NextUI

Before we dive into coding the profile page, let's set up our project:

1.  **Prerequisites:** Ensure you have Node.js and yarn (or npm) installed on your machine.
2.  **NextUI CLI:** Open your terminal and run the following command to install the NextUI CLI globally, execute the following command in your terminal:

```bash
yarn add nextui-cli -g
```

3.  **Init a new NextUI project :** Initialize a new NextUI project using the init command. This sets up your project with the necessary configurations:

```bash
nextui init my-nextui-app
```

You will be prompted to configure your project:

```bash
? Which components would you like to add? › - Space to select. Return to submit

Instructions:
    ↑/↓: Highlight option
    ←/→/[space]: Toggle selection
    [a,b,c]/delete: Filter choices
    enter/return: Complete answer

Filtered results for: Enter something to filter
    ◯  accordion
    ◯  autocomplete
    ◯  avatar
    ◯  badge
    ◯  breadcrumbs◉  button
    ◯  card
    ◯  checkbox
    ◯  chip
    ◯  code
```

You can just use the default configuration and add all the components for now.

4.  **Start Development Server:** Install the dependencies to start the local server:

```bash
cd my-nextui-app && yarn install
```

```bash
yarn dev
```

You should now have a NextUI startup screen at `http://localhost:3000/` in your browser, ready for us to transform into a stunning profile page!

## !!accordions Section 2: Building the FeaturePhotos component

In this section, we'll craft a captivating header showcasing a rotating carousel of feature photos using NextUI for styling, Embla Carousel React for the core carousel functionality, and Tailwind CSS for additional customization.

1. Files and Structure:

   - `feature-photos.tsx`: The main component file for the FeaturePhotos component.
   - `carousel-dot-buttons.tsx`: A component for rendering navigation dots in the carousel.
   - `constants.ts`: A file containing constants for styling.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.

2. Dependencies:

   - `embla-carousel-react`: A lightweight carousel library for React. Install it using `yarn add embla-carousel-react`.
   - `@nextui-org/react`: NextUI components for building the UI

3. Deep dive into `feature-photo.tsx` file:

   - **Props:**

     - `photos`: An array of photo URLs to display in the carousel.
     - `showDots`: A boolean to toggle the visibility of navigation dots.

   - **Carousel Setup:**

     - `useEmblaCarousel` to control the carousel. It's a handy hook provided from `embla-carousel-react` giving us a `ref` to attach to our wrapping element, which is needed to cover the scroll overflow
     - `useDotButton` to manage the state of the navigation dots. It provides the selected index, an array of scroll snap points, and a function to handle dot button clicks.
     - `<CarouselDotButton/>` is a custom component that renders a dot button for each photo. It receives an `onClick` function to handle the click event and a `className` to style the button based on its active state.
     - We will break down the `CarouselDotButton` component and `useDotButton` hook later.

   - **Handling Navigation Dot Button Clicks:**

     - `handleDotButtonClick` is a function that takes an index and returns another function. This returned function, when called, triggers the `onDotButtonClick` function with the provided index.

     ```tsx
     const handleDotButtonClick = (index: number) => {
       // !border(1:3)
       return () => {
         onDotButtonClick(index)
       }
     }
    
      <CarouselDotButton
       ...
       // !border(1:1)
       onClick={handleDotButtonClick(index)}
       ...
     />
     ```

     - This pattern is known as a <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Closures" target="_blank">closure</a>, allowing each dot button to have its own specific behavior when clicked.

   - **Rendering:**

     - The component returns a `<section>` element with two main parts:
       - A block containing the carousel. Photos are mapped elements containing an `<Image>` component from '@nextui-org/react' for each photo. Each image's height is set to `FEATURE_HEADER_HEIGHT` pixels, and the width is set to fill the screen.
       - A conditional block that renders navigation dots using `<CarouselDotButton/>` if `showDots` to visually indicate the currently selected dot.

   - **Styling:**
     - The carousel and its elements are styled using Tailwind CSS classes for layout and appearance. The `className` properties dynamically apply styles based on the component's state and props, such as adjusting the opacity of the active dot.
     - We use the `cn` utility class from NextUI to conditionally apply classes based on the active state of the dot. This util function is also used to join `classNames` together avoiding the TailwindCSS classes conflicts.
     ```tsx
     <CarouselDotButton
        ...
        className={cn(
           'inline-flex cursor-pointer border-0 p-0 m-0 size-2 ...',
           {
              // !callout[/bg-gray-300 opacity-100/] These classnames will only be applied for the active dot element
              'bg-gray-300 opacity-100': index === selectedIndex,
           }
        )}
     />
     ```

4. Deep dive into `carousel-dot-buttons.tsx` file: <br/>

   - **`useDotButton` hook:**

     - The main purpose of this hook is to manage the state of the navigation dots in the carousel. It takes `emblaApi` as an argument, which is the carousel API needed for interacting with the carousel.
     - It has an effect that listens to the `reInit` and `select` from embla carousel API to update the selected index.
     ```tsx
      React.useEffect(() => {
         if (!emblaApi) return;

         onInit(emblaApi);
         onSelect(emblaApi);
         // !border(1:1)
         emblaApi.on('reInit', onInit).on('reInit', onSelect).on('select', onSelect);
      }, [emblaApi, onInit, onSelect]);
     ```
     - The `onDotButtonClick` function execute the `scrollTo` method from the embla carousel API to scroll to the selected photo.
     - The `scrollSnaps` array contains the scroll snap points for each photo in the carousel.
     - The `selectedIndex` variable holds the index of the currently selected photo.
     - The `useDotButton` hook returns an object with the selected index, scroll snaps, and a function to handle dot button clicks. So we can use this object in the `FeaturePhotos` component.

   - **`CarouselDotButton` component:**
     - This component is just a wrapper of the native html button element. It takes all the props that a button element can take, so we can style the button based on its active state and handle the click event from the `FeaturePhotos` component.

**Live Demo:** <br/>
We've created a Storybook story for the `FeaturePhotos` component to showcase its functionality and appearance. You can check it out here: <a href="https://66a1ae67d3806ba8755e9ebe-rktxlyjzkm.chromatic.com/?path=/docs/tutorials-profile-ui-components-feature-photos--docs" target="_blank">FeaturePhotos Story</a>

Now that we've built the `FeaturePhotos` component, we can move on to the next section of our profile page.

## !!accordions Section 3: Designing the Profile Information Section

In this section, we'll create the ProfileInfo component which is responsible for displaying the main information section of a user's profile page.<br/>

1. Files and Structure:

   - `profile-info.tsx`: The main component file for the ProfileInfo component.
   - `info-line.tsx`: A reusable component for displaying an icon and text in a row.
   - `typography.tsx`: Custom typography components for consistent text styling.
   - `utils.ts`: Utility functions for generating avatar fallback text and formatting the user's location.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.

2. Dependencies:
   - `@nextui-org/react`: NextUI components for building the UI
   - `lucide-react`: A library of simply beautiful open-source icons. Install it using `yarn add lucide-react`.

3. Deep dive into `profile-info.tsx` file:
   - **Props:**

     - `profile`: An object containing the user's information like name, username, title, bio, location, website, and avatar URL.
     - `company`: An object containing the company's information like name and website.

   - **Rendering:**

     - The component returns a `<section>` element with the user's avatar, name, username, title, bio, location, website, and an edit profile button.
     - The user's avatar is displayed using the `Avatar` component from '@nextui-org/react'. If the avatar URL is not provided, a fallback text generated from the user's name is displayed.
     - The user's company name is displayed as a clickable link to their website using the `Link` component from '@nextui-org/react'.
     - The user's location and website are displayed using the `InfoLine` component, which shows an icon and text in a row.

4. Deep dive into `info-line.tsx` and `typography.tsx` files:
      - This component takes an icon, classname, and children as props to display an icon and content in a row.
      - We're using the `Icon` component from '@nextui-org/react' to render the icon and `Spacer` component for spacing between the icon and content.
      - The `Paragraph` and `Subtle` components are custom typography components for consistent text styling across the profile page.

**Live Demo:** <br/>
We've created a Storybook story for the `ProfileInfo` component to showcase its functionality and appearance. You can check it out here: <a href="https://66a1ae67d3806ba8755e9ebe-rktxlyjzkm.chromatic.com/?path=/docs/tutorials-profile-ui-components-profile-info--docs" target="_blank">ProfileInfo Story</a>

So far, we've created the `FeaturePhotos` and `ProfileInfo` components. Next, we'll implement the Profile Stats section.

## !!accordions Section 4: Creating the Profile Stats Section

In this section, we'll build the ProfileStats component, which displays the user's profile statistics like followers, following, and posts count.<br/>
Since it's a pretty straightforward component, let's dive into the implementation by opening the `profile-stats.tsx` tab:

1. Files and Structure:

   - `profile-stats.tsx`: The main component file for the ProfileStats component.
   - `stats-block.tsx`: A reusable component for displaying a label and value in a column.
   - `utils.ts`: Utility functions for formatting numbers.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.

2. Deep dive into `profile-stats.tsx` file:
   - **Props:**
     - `stats`: An object containing the user's statistics like followers, following, and posts count.

   - **Rendering:**
     - The component returns a `<section>` element with three `StatsBlock` components for displaying followers, following, and posts count.
     - The `StatsBlock` component takes a label and value as props and displays them in a column.
     - The numbers are formatted using the `formatNumber` utility function to include commas and a maximum of 3 decimal places.

**Live Demo:** <br/>
We've created a Storybook story for the `ProfileStats` component to showcase its functionality and appearance. You can check it out here: <a href="https://66a1ae67d3806ba8755e9ebe-rktxlyjzkm.chromatic.com/?path=/docs/tutorials-profile-ui-components-profile-stats--docs" target="_blank">ProfileStats Story</a>

## !!accordions Section 5: Implementing the Profile Timeline Tabs

In this section, we'll create the ProfileTimeline tab component, which allows users to switch between different timeline views like posts, photos, and liked posts.

1. Files and Structure:
  
   - `profile-timeline.tsx`: The main component file for the ProfileTimeline component.
   - `use-timeline-tabs.tsx`: A custom hook for managing the active tab state.
   - `types.ts`: TypeScript file for defining the component's prop types.


</CodeWithAccoridions>
